Q1. What is cloud ?
  The cloud refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers. Cloud servers are located in data
 centers all over the world. By using cloud computing, users and companies don't have to manage physical servers themselves or run software applications on their
 own machines.
  The cloud enables users to access the same files and applications from almost any device, because the computing and storage takes place on servers in a data center,
 instead of locally on the user device. This is why a user can log into their Instagram account on a new phone after their old phone breaks and still find their old
 account in place, with all their photos, videos, and conversation history. It works the same way with cloud email providers like Gmail or Microsoft Office 365, and
 with cloud storage providers like Dropbox or Google Drive.
  For businesses, switching to cloud computing removes some IT costs and overhead: for instance, they no longer need to update and maintain their own servers, as the
 cloud vendor they are using will do that. This especially makes an impact for small businesses that may not have been able to afford their own internal infrastructure
 but can outsource their infrastructure needs affordably via the cloud. The cloud can also make it easier for companies to operate internationally, because employees
 and customers can access the same files and applications from any location.

Q2. What are different types of cloud ?
  Cloud Types: Private, Public and Hybrid, Community
Depending on the type of data you’re working with, you’ll want to compare public, private, and hybrid clouds in terms of the different levels of security 
and management required.

i. Public Cloud – Whole computing infrastructure is located on the premises of a cloud computing company that offers the cloud service.

ii. Private Cloud – Hosting all your computing infrastructure yourself and is not shared. The security and control level is highest while using a private network.

iii. Hybrid Cloud – using both private and public clouds, depending on their purpose. You host your most important applications on your own servers to keep them 
    more secure and secondary applications elsewhere.
iv. Community Cloud – A community cloud is shared between organizations with a common goal or that fit into a specific community (professional community, 
    geographic community, etc.).

Types of cloud services: IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, FaaS
Cloud computing services fall into 4 categories: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), software as a service (SaaS) and 
FaaS (functions as a service). These are sometimes called the cloud computing stack, because they build on top of one another.

i. Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS)- IaaS is the most basic category of cloud computing services that allows you rent IT infrastructure (servers or VM’s) 
   from a cloud provider on a pay-as-you-go basis.

ii. Platform as a service (PaaS)- Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) refers to the supply an on-demand environment for developing, testing, delivering and managing
   software applications. It is designed to quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying about setting up or managing the underlying infrastructure of servers,
   storage, network and databases needed for development.

iii. Software as a service (SaaS)- Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is a method for delivering software applications over the Internet as per the demand and on a
   subscription basis. SaaS helps you host and manage the software application and underlying infrastructure and handle any maintenance (software upgrades and 
   security patching).

iv. FaaS (functions as a service)- FaaS adds another layer of abstraction to PaaS, so that developers are completely insulated from everything in the stack below
   their code. Instead of handling the hassles of virtual servers, containers, and application runtimes, they upload narrowly functional blocks of code, and set
   them to be triggered by a certain event. FaaS applications consume no IaaS resources until an event occurs, reducing pay-per-use fees.

Q3. What are advantages and disadvantages cloud ?
  Pros-
	i. You only pay for the system time and space used.
	ii. Low-up front payment.
	iii. Servers can be deployed instantly.
	iv. Traffic spikes aren'tproblem. The cloud can handle them.
	v. Increased reliability. If the servers are in different data centers, data center problem can be less of a concern.
	vi. Economical and reliable.
	vii. Accessed from anywhere.
  Cons-
	i. Sites using cloud hosting can stil have downtime if the connection between servers are not working.
	ii. Lack a root access to the servers means less control.
	iii. Reliance in shared storage result in much higher disk latency which may be problematic for web applications.
	iv. Increased security risks if hosting provider doesn't offer advanced security tools.
	v. Security issues and limited control.

Q4. What is EC2 ?
    Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), one of Amazon Web Services’ most well-known services, offers businesses the ability to run applications on the public cloud.
 Developers can create instances of virtual machines and easily configure the capacity scaling of instances using the EC2 web interface.
 EC2 also allows users to build apps to automate scaling according to changing needs and peak periods, and makes it simple to deploy virtual servers and manage storage,
 lessening the need to invest in hardware and helping streamline development processes.
 EC2 setup involves creating an Amazon Machine Image (AMI), which includes an operating system, apps, and configurations. That AMI is loaded to the Amazon Simple 
 Storage Service (S3), and it’s registered with EC2, at which point users can launch virtual machines as needed.
 Amazon offers different instance types of EC2 for different requirements and budgets, including hourly, reserved, and spot rates.

 Amazon EC2 Features-
	Integration: EC2 can integrate with other AWS services, such as RDS, SimpleDB, and SQS.
        Precise control: Users get administrative access to their instances, can stop and start instances while retaining boot partition data, and can access 
	console output for the instance.
	Security: Users can control which instances remain private and which have internet exposure. EC2 leverages Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) for security,
	and businesses can connect their secure IT infrastructure to resources in VPC.
	Cost: Among a number of pricing options, EC2 offers affordable hourly rates.     	